# $Id: simpat-help.pod,v 1.3 1999/04/08 20:00:32 root Exp $

# Copyright (c) Mark Summerfield 1999. All Rights Reserved.
# May be used/distributed under the same terms as Perl.

=pod

=head1 Simpat Help

Press <C<Escape>> or <C<q>> to close this help window; scroll using
the scrollbar, arrow keys, <C<PageUp>> or <C<PageDown>>.

=head2 Mouse

C<Left click>ing will draw on the canvas, C<Right click>ing will delete from
the canvas - this allows you to draw your own shapes onto the canvas before
or during a simulation.

=head2 Keystrokes

=over

=item *

C<Ctrl-q>	Quit Simpat (with prompt to save if necessary).

=item

C<[F1]>	Invoke this help window.

=back

=head2 Statusbar

At the bottom of the main window is a status bar. It is divided into two
sections which are described below in left to right order. 

=over

=item 1

The first section shows the current generation.

=item

The second section provides brief information.

=back


=head2 File Menu

=over

=item *

B<New> - This will create a new blank simulation. If you save it you
will be prompted for a filename with the B<Save As> dialogue.

=item

B<Open>	This will open an existing simulation. You will be presented with
a file selection dialogue from which to choose the file.

=item

B<Save> - This will save the existing simulation. If the simulation is
new you will be prompted for a filename with the B<Save As> dialogue.

=item

B<Save As> - This will present you with a file selection dialogue. You select
the path and enter the new filename to which the simulation will be saved.

=item

B<Options> - This will invoke the options dialogue.

=item

B<Quit> - This will quit the program. If the simulation has had unsaved
changes you will be prompted for a filename with the B<Save As> dialogue.

=item

B<1..9> - Simpat remembers the last nine files opened or saved. By
selecting one of these the file will be reopened. If the filename is I<(None)>
then the B<Open> dialogue will be invoked.

=back


=head2 Simulation Menu

=over

=item *

B<Rules> - choose a set of rules to use for the simulation. The default set
supplied is C<life.spr> which gives the rules for Conway's life.

=item

B<Properties> - invoke a dialogue through which the user can change the
parameters for the rules being used. 

=back

=head2 Scale Menu

This allows you to set the scale, the larger the scale the larger the
coloured squares, and the fewer of them and the faster the simulation will
run.

=head2 Help Menu

=over

=item *

B<Help> - invoke this help screen.

=item

B<About> - invoke Simpat's about box.

=back

=head2 Options dialogue

Allows you to set global options for all simulations.


=head2 Options file

Options should be set using the Options dialogue.
User options are stored in C<~/.simpat-opts> (C<SIMPAT.INI> under Win32). 

Any options you change in this file take precedence over the default
options. To reinstate a default option delete or comment out (with
C<#>) the options you wish to reinstate - the next time you run the
program the defaults will be back.

The options currently supported are listed below. They may be changed by
the user unless specified otherwise.

=over

=item

C<DIR> - This is the initial working directory.

=item

C<LAST_FILE> - I<Should not be changed.>

=item

C<LAST_FILE_>I<n> - The absolute paths and names of the I<n>th file used; the
last nine files opened or saved are listed here. (I<n> is in the range 1..9.)

=back

=head2 Copyright

Copyright (c) Mark Summerfield 1999. All Rights Reserved.

Simpat may be used/distributed under the same terms as Perl.

=cut
